---
title: 'How to break into machine learning'
date: 2022-10-01
permalink: /posts/2022/10/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Machine learning 
  - Learning resources
---

I have a master's degree in civil and structural engineering, and I dedicated the last year of my MSc study, including my MSc thesis, to vibration-based damage detection using machine learning (ML). At that time, I was working together with the Monitoring of Structures research group at Aarhus University, who wanted to apply their structural health monitoring technologies within a probabilistic framework to perform damage detection. I had a solid background in applied mathematics and a semi-solid background in classical statistics, but machine learning was a completely new field to me. As most people would probably do, I stated out by finding some book recommendations on the topic, collected to most highly rated books, i.e., Bishop (2006) and Murphy (2012), and dived in. These books are somewhat of a mouthful when you are not familiar with the (Bayesian) ML jargon and workflow, but then I found Andrew Ng’s original, online Stanford/Coursera.org course, which became a game changer for me, and I now have a PhD in probabilistic modeling and analysis (ML) and work as a Postdoc in this field.

So, to help others break into ML as well, I have put together a progression outline that I would follow if I had to do it all over again in 2022. One thing to note here is that you need to have a solid foundation in the underlaying basis, i.e., mathematics and programming, to fully understand and confidently apply ML technologies in practice. Therefore, this outline will not only focus on building you knowledge on the core ML topics but also on the basis.

Mathematics
======

Mathematics for ML is covered in detail in this excellent textbook by Deisenroth, Faisal, and Ong (2020), as well as in the online specialization by the same name offered Imperial College London through Coursera ([link]( https://www.coursera.org/specializations/mathematics-machine-learning)). I would recommend taking the specialization, while reading up on the subject covered in the textbook.

Programming
======

The most popular programming language for applying ML is Python, 

...

Machine learning
======

For me there is only one way to venture into ML and that is to follow Andrew Ng's ML course, which is now avaliable in a 2022 version (3-course specialization; [link](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/machine-learning-introduction)) that uses Python for the lab exercises. Andrew's ability to explain complex topics in a simple way is unique to this program, and I have simply not seen a better introduction to the field.

After this general introduction to the ML field, you are ready to dive into more specialized branches that align with your research or work, as well as to put your newly acquired skills into production. The former relies on an individual choice of what to learn next, e.g., you may want to explore deep learning in detail (see e.g., [link](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/deep-learning)), whereas the latter relies on learning a methodology and tools to support it (see e.g., [link](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/ibm-data-science)).

Projects
======

... apply to your own data!

--------------------------------------

Deisenroth, M.P., Faisal, A.A. and Ong, C.S., Mathematics for machine learning. Cambridge University Press, 2020. ([link](https://mml-book.github.io/))

Murphy, Kevin P. Machine learning: a probabilistic perspective. MIT press, 2012.

Bishop, Christopher M., Pattern recognition and machine learning. Springer, 2006.

--------------------------------------
